Skye (Scottish Gaelic An t-Eilean Sgitheanach), often referred to as the Isle of Skye, is the largest of the Inner Hebridean islands located off the west coast of Scotland. The capital and largest town on the island is the picturesque port of Portree.

Inhabited since the Mesolithic era, there are currently about 10,000 people living on the island, although the transient population of tourists swells during the busy summer months. Skye's popularity with tourists is largely due to its remarkable landscape and easy accessibility from the mainland, both by car over the Skye Bridge or by ferry; and by bus and train through adjacent mainland towns.

Skye is part of the Highland Council local government area and is now linked to the mainland by a road bridge. The island is renowned for its spectacular scenery, vibrant culture and heritage, and its abundant wildlife including the Golden Eagle, Red Deer and Salmon. It is also one of the most accessible regions in which to hear Gaelic being spoken, with about thirty percent of the local population being fluent and a sizeable Gaelic college in Sleat.

Skye may be understood as a number of distinct peninsulas that extend out from the Cuillin, the mountainous centre of the island. A largely missable central plateau north of the Cuillin separates Portree on the east coast and Dunvegan in the west.

In the north (from west to east):
Duirnish Peninsula includes Glendale, Colbost and the scenic lighthouse at Neist Point.
Waternish Peninsula has some pretty villages, but is otherwise often overlooked by tourists.
Trotternish Peninsula is the largest and most frequently visited, thanks in no small part to the stunning rock formations of the Old Man of Storr and the Quiraing. The A855 road (and 57A / 57C bus routes) circumnavigate this beautiful part of Skye, with plentiful options for walking and climbing, as well as numerous attractive small settlements for overnight stops or holiday bases.
In the west:
Minginish Peninsula offers amazing (but cloud dependent!) views south-east towards the Cuillin, as well as a scenic coastline. The Talisker Distillery (see 'Drink' below) is on the tranquil shore of Loch Harport in Colbost.
In the south:
Sleat is the gently rolling landscape that includes the southernmost tip of Skye and the pier at Armadale for the ferry to and from Mallaig.