Svalbard is a group of islands that belongs to Norway located between the Arctic Ocean, Barents Sea, Greenland Sea, and the Norwegian Sea. The islands are directly North of (and since 1920 an integrated part of) Norway.

Svalbard in the Arctic Sea
All settlements in Svalbard are located on the main island of Spitsbergen (or Vest-Spitsbergen).

Barentsburg — sole remaining Russian settlement, population 400
Hornsund — Polish research station, population 10 in winter, around 20-30 in summer.
Longyearbyen — the "capital" and main Norwegian settlement with a population of 1,800
Ny-Ålesund — the most northerly civilian settlement in the world, population under 100
Sveagruva — population 210
The other islands of Svalbard are uninhabited and, as they are all nature reserves, generally inaccessible without special permission. The islands can be divided into two groups: the Spitsbergen group of Barentsøya, Edgeøya, Nordaustlandet and Prins Karls Forland, and the more remote islands of Bjørnøya, Hopen, Kong Karls Land and Kvitøya.


House in abandoned Grumant mine
Understand
Svalbard is the northernmost tip of Europe and, a few research bases aside, its settlements are the northernmost permanently inhabited spots on the planet. Located between the 76° and 81° parallels, they are far more northerly than any part of Alaska and all but a few of Canada's Arctic islands. In fact, they would be permanently locked in by ice if not for the moderating influence of the Gulf Stream, and it is this comparative warmth that makes them habitable. The islands cover a total of 62,050km2, the largest of which are Spitsbergen, Nordaustlandet and Edgeøya. The combined permanent population is less than 3000, nearly all of which is concentrated in the main settlements of Longyearbyen and Barentsburg on Spitsbergen.

The islands are governed by Sysselmann på Svalbard, literally if slightly awkwardly translated into English as the Governor of Svalbard; this is not a single person, but the administrative team responsible for police, fire, rescue, and other public services on the islands.